NTR - Improve testing guides (#222)
shopware/docs: resources/guidelines/testing/e2e-best-practises.md

Cypress got you covered with their best practises as well: So please also look at their best practises to get to know their patterns:

{% embed url="https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/best-practices.html" %}

{% hint style="warning" %} We strongly recommend to follow Cypress' own best practises as well. {% endhint %}

## Amount and prioritisation of end-to-end tests

### Video

At [Shopware Community Day](https://scd.shopware.com/en/) 2020, we gave a talk on how we approach automated testing in Shopware, how far we have come on this journey, and what we have gained so far:

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sxvQoWF4KS0" %}

To sum it up briefly for your End-to-End testing context, End-Tto-End tests are the one tests being slow and thus expensive to maintain. That's why we need a way to prioritize our test cases.

### When should I write an end-to-end test?

You see, due to running times it is not advisable to cover every single workflow available. The following criteria may help you with that:

> * Cover the most general, most used workflows of a feature, e.g. CRUD operations. The term "happy path" describes those workflows quite well.

Reviewer: Maybe link to Wiki or maybe there is some better source for `happy path` ? 

The term was new to me

## Structure and Scope

The second most important thing is to just test the workflow you explicitly want to test: Any other steps or workflows to get your test running should be done using API operations in the `beforeEach` hook, as we don't want to test them more than once.
For example: if you want to test the checkout process you shouldn't do all the steps like create the sales channel, products and categories although you need them in order to process the checkout. Use the API to create these things and let the test just do the checkout.

You need to focus on the workflow to be tested to ensure minimum test runtimes and to get a valid result of your test case if it fails. Fot this workflow, you have to think like the end-user would do: Focus on usage of your feature, not technical implementation.

Other examples of steps or workflow to cut off the actual tests are:
* The routines which should only provide the data we need: Just use test fixtures to create this data to have everything available before the test starts.
* Logging in to the Administration: You need it in almost every Administration test, but writing it in all tests is pure redundancy and way more error sensitive.

> {% hint style="info" %} This [scope practise](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/best-practices.html#Organizing-Tests-Logging-In-Controlling-State) is also mentioned in Cypress' best practises as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% hint style="info" %} This [scope practice](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/best-practices.html#Organizing-Tests-Logging-In-Controlling-State) is also mentioned in Cypress' best practices as well.
```

### When should I write an end-to-end test?

{% hint style="danger" %} Cover every possible workflow with E2E tests. {% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %} Use proper prioritisation to choose test cases covered by E2E tests. {% endhint %}

You see, due to running times it is not advisable to cover every single workflow available. The following criteria may help you with that:
* **Cover the most general, most used workflows of a feature**, e.g. CRUD operations. The term "[happy path](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Happy_path)" describes those workflows quite well.
* **Beware the critical path**: Cover those workflows with E2E tests, which are most vulnerable and would cause most damage if broken.
* **Avoid duplicate coverage**: E2E tests should only cover what they can cover, usually big-picture user stories \(workflows\) that contain many components and views.
  * Sometimes unit tests are suited better: For example, use an E2E test to test your application's reaction on a failed validation, not the validation itself.

## Workflow-based end-to-end tests

{% hint style="danger" %} Write E2E test as you would write unit tests. {% endhint %}

> {% hint style="success" %} Write E2E tests in a "workflow-based" manner, that means writing the test describing a reals

Reviewer 2: You got me puzzled here:

I assume 
reals -> real

Author: Ah, bad typo 🙈

> {% hint style="success" %} Write E2E tests in a "workflow-based" manner, that means writing the test describing a reals

Author: ```suggestion
{% hint style="success" %} Write E2E tests in a "workflow-based" manner, that means writing the test describing a real
```

});
```

> {% hint style="info" %} This [best practise](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/best-practices#Unnecessary-Waiting) is also mentioned in Cypress' best practises as well. Actually, it can be considered as general best practise to avoid flakiness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% hint style="info" %} This [best practice](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/best-practices#Unnecessary-Waiting) is also mentioned in Cypress' best practices as well. Actually, it can be considered as general best practice to avoid flakiness.
```

});
```

{% hint style="info" %} This [best practice](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/best-practices#Unnecessary-Waiting) is also mentioned in Cypress' best practices as well. Actually, it can be considered as general best practice to avoid flakiness.
{% endhint %}

## Cypress' commands and their queue

{% hint style="danger" %} Using vanilla JavaScript logic alongside cypress commands without further caution {% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %} If you need vanilla Javascript in your test, wrap it in a Cypress' `then` or build a custom command in order to get it queued. {% endhint %}

Cypress commands are asynchronous and get queued for execution at a later time. During execution, subjects are yielded from one command to the next, and a lot of helpful Cypress code runs between each command to ensure everything is in order.

> This won't happen with Vanilla JS though, it will be executed immediately. In the worst case, this difference can cause timing issues. So always wrap your vannila JavaScript code into Cypress commands or `then` in order to make use of Cypress' command queue.

Reviewer 2: Vannila -> Vanilla

> This won't happen with Vanilla JS though, it will be executed immediately. In the worst case, this difference can cause timing issues. So always wrap your vannila JavaScript code into Cypress commands or `then` in order to make use of Cypress' command queue.

Author: ```suggestion
This won't happen with Vanilla JS though, it will be executed immediately. In the worst case, this difference can cause timing issues. So always wrap your vanilla JavaScript code into Cypress commands or `then` in order to make use of Cypress' command queue.
```
